# Antarctic-Snow-Depth-Evaluation-ICESat2-CryoSat2

**MSc Thesis in Ocean and Climate Physics** <br>
**Author:** Kirsten Schulze

## Titel: Evaluation of Snow Depth Retrievals from Differences in ICESat-2 and CryoSat-2 Freeboards Using In-Situ Measurements in the Weddell Sea

**Abstract.** Snow on Antarctic sea ice remains poorly understood, primarily due to a lack of comprehensive data. Snow significantly impacts sea ice by preventing its growth in winter and melting in summer, thanks to its high albedo and insulating properties. Obtaining accurate data on snow depth is crucial for better understanding these processes. Satellite data offers a promising method for obtaining extensive time series over large areas, but its accuracy compared to in-situ measurements is uncertain. This study aims to evaluate snow depth retrievals using lidar data from ICESat-2 and radar data from CryoSat-2, comparing them to in-situ snow accumulation measurements from Snow Buoys drifting in the Weddell Sea. The statistical analysis, primarily conducted using Python, focuses on differences between the satellite snow product and snow depth from a simple 1-D thermodynamic model driven by snow accumulation rates from the Snow Buoys. Additionally, auxiliary datasets such as multiyear ice concentration and sea ice concentration are used for intercomparisons to ensure consistency. Results showed that the daily snow depths derived from the freeboards from ICESat-2 and CryoSat-2 consistently underestimated the snow depth from the buoys corrected by a simple 1-D thermodynamic model by an average of 45 cm. This can be caused by the limited penetration depth of the radar signal, errors in the simple snow model used to correct the buoy data for snow ice processes, or the spatial and temporal difference between the two snow depth products. This study showed that there are 29 temporal and spatial overlaps between the two data products, but it should not be neglected that the satellite product is an average over the grid cell, whereas the Snow Buoy gives us a point measurement. However, despite these limitations, the temporal evolution of snow depth between the satellite product and Snow Buoy 2021S114 in 2021 showed promising alignment when both measured snow depth over first-year ice. Moreover, the spatio-temporal snow depth gradients of the buoy-satellite pair of 2021S114 in the year 2021 aligned almost perfectly. This highlights the need for further research, particularly through deploying more Snow Buoys on first-year ice floes. Although there were only a limited number of matches between the satellite and buoy data, overall, this thesis showed some promising results that highlight the need for future research in this area. Furthermore, for future work, the SNOWPACK model is suggested to correct the snow accumulation data from the Snow Buoys, as it considers not only the formation of snow ice but also the formation of superimposed ice.


### Data:
1. **KaKo20 Snow Depth Product:** Sahra Kacimi. Daily Composites of Antarctic Ocean Sea Ice Snow Depth Derived from ICESat-2 and CryoSat-2 Freeboards. Jet Propulsion Laboratory - NASA, personal communication, 2024. Received: 21 May 2024. (Data provided on the NSIDC polar stereographic grid, with 25 km x 25 km resolution.)
2. **Snow Depth Derived from Snow Buoys:** Stefanie Arndt. Data from Snow Buoys Drifting through the Weddell Sea with Corrected Snow Depth by a Simple 1-D Thermodynamic Model. Alfred-Wegener-Institut, personal communication, 2023. Received: 5 December 2023.
3. **Multiyear Ice Concentration:** Melsheimer, Christian; Spreen, Gunnar; Ye, Yufang; Shokr, Mohammed (2019). Multiyear Ice Concentration, Antarctic, 12.5 km Grid, Cold Seasons 2013-2018 (from Satellite). PANGAEA. Accessed: 7 July 2024. https://doi.org/10.1594/PANGAEA.909054 
4. **Sea Ice Concentration:** ASI Algorithm AMSR-E Sea Ice Concentration for 2019, 2021, and 2022 obtained from the Integrated Climate Data Center (ICDC, CEN, University of Hamburg, Germany). Accessed: 10 July 2024.
5. **Snow Depth Corrected by SNOWPACK:** Nina Maaß. Snow Depths Corrected with the SNOWPACK Model. Alfred-Wegener-Institut, personal communication, 2024. Received: 1 August 2024.
